you
hey guys it's Chris here at engine in
last week's video we gave you guys an
overview of our new beta release for
menu 2.0 and all the features associated
in the video this week we'll be
concentrating on one area in particular
the style editor section this is where
most of your design work will take place
and we'll quickly show you through this
video how to create an awesome menu just
like the one above the engine forums
if we head over to admin and then pages
you can see the two menu modules we
currently have set up on the engine
forums both menu modules have been set
to the fixed top position with one hold
in our menu items and the other hold in
our widgets and has been functions
to get started we'll need to edit the
menu module our first stop will be the
menu manager tab from the menu manager
you want to create your menu structure
in particular any sub menus and division
lines which will be able to add it later
division line items help keep your menu
a bit cleaner so make sure you use them
if you have many sub menu items present
okay next stop the style editor this is
where we'll be covering most of our
information for this video tutorial from
the style selector tab the first thing
you'll want to do is choose your menus
position in
you can have the menu fixed at the top
of your website or have the menu contain
just like any other module since we are
using two different menu modules on the
engine website it makes sense to have a
fixed top position and so things look a
bit cleaner do note that having a fixed
top position menu will automatically
remove your login an admin drop-down
widgets you'll need to rehab these
functions separately to the widgets tab
inside the menu 2.0 module from the
style selector tab you can also choose a
preset theme we've gone for the clarity
blue theme our next stop will be the
background Styles tab this is where your
customize your menu background from here
you can customize your background size
color and a few other features
we've selected a background height of 55
pixels as well as a nice blue color
gradient we've also chosen to hide the
top and bottom menu stroke lines
the font style
habits will customize your menu font
settings
you can choose your font style size as
well as a bunch of other features two
cool features we've include in our menu
is the font effect and the font hover
effect we've added a small drop shadow
to the font and a nice small glow-on
font over
the next section we're going to cover is
a really useful section at the position
and gap section this is where we'll
position all our menu items and buttons
to save you a lot of time fiddling with
the settings make use of the Auto Center
margin spread options the gap between
button section is a useful place to keep
your buttons tidy we've chosen to
include a two picks of black gap between
our buttons with a secretary lighter
color to form a shadow effect you can
also choose the divider placement ours
is set in between front and last the
next section is the buttons tab this is
real will customize our buttons we've
chosen to keep our buttons transparent
so we've hit the disable button style
option if you want to make use of
buttons however you can set the size
choose the gradient or upload your own
custom images just like the backgrounds
tab the next stop will be with the
button hover tab and we've chosen again
to disable the style in this section
many of the same options can be found
here as in previous sections but do take
note of the text hover effect options
the last button section will be the
button selected tab this is where your
customizer design once a button is
selected again we've chosen to disable
this style but you can easily set this
to an image or color to show a user
they've selected a button the menu icon
section allows you to customize any
icons you've uploaded in the menu
manager section these include the icon
size color and any effects
our next start will be the Serb menu
section this Israel will customize all
our submenu items from here you can
choose how the sub menu drop-down will
open the speed the position and the
effect of the drop-down we've chosen the
effect slide down and up and for the sub
menu drop down to open our mouse hover
from this section also you can customize
your submenu background color as well as
uploading any custom images you want the
sub menu button tab will allow you to
customize your sub menu buttons you can
customize your buttons height gap size
colors effects and the speed
we've opted for a very slow instant
change effect on our sub menu buttons
the submenu header section is we will
customize our sub menu item dividers
under the sub menu head to divide a
section you'll be customized in any
division line items you added to the
menu manager section as you can see
we've chosen a two pixel tool blue
division line for our sub menu drop down
the very last section is the
miscellaneous section from this section
you can choose your menu width in
percentage as well as the horizontal
position and that's it
that covers all the sections in the
stylet so we use from Crete on an engine
for a menu module one final item we'll
cover on our main menu module is the
little logo in the left hand corner you
can add your own custom logo image to
your menu by heading over to the widget
section added an image widget
as you can see we've added two images to
our image widget one B in the main
engine logo and the other be in the same
logo of a small glow effect this simple
image switching is what's causing the
cool glow effect on Mouse hover for
convenience sake we've also chosen to
link back our image to the engine forums
if you've watched any of our previous
video tutorials or checked up on our
guides on the engine forums you may know
that using two menu modules together in
the fixed top position is a great way to
separate your menu items we've made use
of this trick on the engine forums
creating a very simple design second
menu module in the fix top position this
menu sits above our main menu module and
contains just our admin login and social
widgets you can make use of as many menu
modules as you want so never feel that
you have to cram all your items onto one
single module we hope you've enjoyed our
second video tutorial covering the style
editor in our menu 2.0 beta release if
you have any questions feel free to
leave a comment or send in a support
form all links included in the video
description